# lost-in-steam-with-a-box
Dev log of me learning OS development. On SteamOS for SteamOS, you got to start some where.

Start! 7/4/26
  Well, first things first. I don't want to run the OS on bare-metal hardware. If I do something that will crash the OS I don't want it to take everything with it. I would like to be able to capture logs and debug data. Also, to be able to restore to previous versions that dont' crash on boot. So, I decided to use a virtual machine. I am starting with VirtualBox. This might not be the best thing to use but it will work for now. "There is nothing more perminent then a temporary solution."

  My first problem was running SteamOS inside VirtualBox. I got the OS from [Steam](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/65B4-2AA3-5F37-4227#install). However, they provide a .img file instead of a .iso which VirtualBox needs. I found a comment/subpost from a user called "Offline" [post](https://steamcommunity.com/groups/steamuniverse/discussions/1/648814395813782335/?l=russian) saying you can turn it into a .vdi and run it that way. With the command: "VBoxManage convertfromraw 'name.img' 'name.vdi'" you can get the .vdi file which you then can attach to the VM as a hard drive and VirtualBox will boot just fine from it.

  My Second problem I have not been able to fix. Trying to run the "Install" script will give you a NVMe problem. The script assumes you have a nvme drive for it to target and install on. It's intened for fixing Steam Decks and Steam Machine so things like that are to be expected. Louij2 on github has a solution for this, a modified install [script](https://github.com/louij2/steamos_custom_install). It lets you target the drive you would like to install to. You could also add a nvme drive to the VM (I found this out later) but either way we have the same problem. VirtualBox doesn't emulate low-lever bits of the drives. Both of the scripts call specific nvme instruction that VirtualBox can't handle, returning invalid opcode (0x4001). I haven't found a way around that yet.
